Nomenclature:

spool level = group selection level
group level = thread selection level
thread level = article selection level
article level = article viewer level

COMMENTS ON EXECUTABLE:

There is an extraneous newline after the "Checking for new groups..."
message at startup

The "D" deleted article flag (group and thread level) is not
showing up
  With PLMC I can't get the articles to show up at all; with
  tin-1.3beta-950824 it would sometimes list them but not let you enter
  article viewer -- if this new behavior is reliable we don't need the "D"
  flag

** PLMC -- I'm not sure I like this new "feature" of number of lines in
article showing up at group level...can this be made tinrc configurable?

Problem with invoking editor with blank articles -- "Not that many lines
in buffer" ... if you have an automatic .sig file you don't see this problem
REM: that seems to be a problem with tin/vi - no probelms with tin/joe

After an article, thread, or group is marked unread, shouldn't we rerun the
filter on it?

** PLMC -- The new header on page 2+ at article level sure is ugly -- maybe
we need a two line header, perhaps one that looks like this?

alt.some.newsgroup                     Thread 47 of 167, Resp 1/4 (page 2 of 13)
Joe Q. Public                    Re: So, what really is the longest thread ever?

  It would be nice if we had some code to calculate the number of screens
  an article would take up.

Shouldn't the prompt (when numbers are typed) at group level say "Select
thread>"?

How about a "^" command at spool, group, and thread level analogous to "$"?

Shell escape should spawn $SHELL, not "sh"

Shell escape should permit "^U" line kill

Get that keywords and summary crap out of the article body display 
Make this tinrc configurable.

The "X" command at group doesn't actually show only selected articles,
  it does what "r" does.

How about a "Z" command at spool level that marks ALL groups as
unread (basically the opposite of ^R)?
REM: plain "Z" is too dangerous, "^Z" is used by the shell...

How about an "a" (add group) command at group selection level with "g"'s
current functionality, and let g simply go to the new group without adding
it to the .newsrc.  This would make the "g" command more like the "g"
command at group level.
  PLMC seems to have done the "g" half of this, but "a" toggles ANSI color
  on and off.  Since this would be a new feature, we could make it "^A" and
  let "a" be "add group"...
REM:^a/^A is used by the shell... 

Let the articles saved to the "posted" mailbox format file be configurable
(whether it is done at all, and what dir it goes to)

Someone on news.software.readers made a good suggestion -- a quick article
save command that just takes all the defaults.  "S" maybe?  This might,
however, conflict with the behavior of "S" at group level (fast save of
tagged articles).

Speaking of "S" at group level, it doesn't seem to work!  I tagged an
article at group level, hit "S", and the article went to the bit bucket!
Perhaps "S" should be rewritten to fast save current thread (at group
level only) if no articles are tagged.  Use default_save_file from tinrc,
and make up a filename if that is undefined.

We need a way to bring up the newsgroup description string at any level.
Currently, to see it at any time other than posting confirmation, you have
to hack the maxlength of the newsgroups name down, which necessitates
editing the tinrc.  This is too clumsy.  How about a command invokable from
any level that would bring it up on the bottom one or two lines?

Finally, some big suggestions for the look and feel of tin.  These would
probably be a real pain to code.
  1) If any of the fields at the top of the screen at article level are too
     large to fit on the screen (this only happens with newsgroup names
     and subject lines), we need something to check the length and perhaps
     put a "..." in the middle of the string so that the beginning and end
     can be seen.
  2) When tin is doing prompting and message display at the bottom of the
     screen at any level, it needs to "intelligently" scroll so that the
     top of the screen does not scroll, but instead overwrites lines
     upwards toward midscreen.  This would look a lot cleaner.  (ELM does
     something much like what I'm talking about.)

COMMENTS ON MANUAL PAGE:

"t" at group level works as a toggle.  Manpage doesn't mention this.

Manpage claims "-c" and "-u" options do the same thing.

"q" at group level should say "return to group selection level", since it
does not actually return you to the previous level you were at (for
instance, if you had been at thread level).

"#" command at spool level undocumented in manpage.

Manpage probably needs to be heavily rewritten.

MISCELLANEOUS REMARKS:

The language in the INSTALL file ("DONT_LOG_USER") is misleading

The whole INSTALL file really needs to be rewritten for greater clarity


018) Urs Janssen <urs@akk.uni-karlsruhe.de> 
     ADD. made keep_posted_articles configurable in tinrc
     FIX. extern.h, config.c, post.c
     later i recognized that such an option exists in ~/.tin/attributes
     so this patch will probably removed in a future version

This should probably be moved to the tinrc anyway.

--950824BETA  PLM.960224 eb/uj/sts/gb/cb --

016) Urs Janssen <urs@akk.uni-karlsruhe.de>
     BUG. inverse_okay & draw_arrow both could be off
     FIX. config.c

This seems to still be the case if someone uses the undocumented "a"
command at spool level...

--950824BETA  PL0.951125 eb/uj/gb--

007) Enrik Berkhan <enrik@akk.uni-karlsruhe.de>
     Urs Janssen <urs@akk.uni-karlsruhe.de>
     BUG. goto implies auto-subscribe, reposition does not update "show
          unread" state.
     FIX. select.c - kicked auto-subscribe, corrected reposition_group

This is good, but now we need a command to add a group to the newsrc.

L02) Greg Berigan <gberigan@cse.unl.edu>
     ADD. skip quoted text while reading (press ':')
     FIX. various - applied supplied patch.

This seems to do exactly the same thing as the spacebar.
REM: it does not, but if we would use regex for finding quotelines for
coloring and skipping them....
